Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbyville.
On that Sunday, December the 7th, 1941, A&M sophomore Louis Hudson sat in the campus theater across from Texas A&M when the theater manager stopped the film, came out to tell his patrons about the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor.
The event that changed the course of America also changed the lives of Americans.
For Lewis Hudson, it started his path to the Army, to paratroop school at Fort Benning, to England, where he joined up with the 82nd Airborne, to a midnight jump behind the German lines that guarded Utah Beach just hours before the Allies' invasion at Normandy.
It was D-Day.
Day in and day out, there was combat.
Eventually, another jump called Operation Market Garden.
And then the Battle of the Bulge.
Lewis Hudson and his wife, Jo, have been married nearly 59 years now.
They live in Bryan.
He certainly has a story of service to tell.
Lewis Hudson, thank you for joining us.
I want to go back to Texas A&M and sort of the environment here on campus back after Pearl Harbor was attacked.
What was it like?
What were the thoughts back then of the students and sort of the community back then?
Well, Tom, I think everybody knows that it was...
All Corps then.
We were under Army regulations, even though we were in the Army Reserve ROTC program.
But it was very strict.
We had classes until 12 noon on Saturdays.
And unless you got a pass to leave, we were...
busy on the campus.
We went to movies.
They expected us to go to church in those days.
And we did sometimes.
But we were aware of the war situations in Europe and in Asia and thinking, almost everybody thinking that someday we too might be involved.
Although public opinion
was very much opposed in the United States to getting involved with either side of the conflict until Pearl Harbor.
Right.
Later you would go back to the movie and you would see one of the old newsreels and it would talk about the paratroopers at Fort Benning.
And that's sort of where you got hooked.
That's what you wanted to do, right?
Yeah, my roommate and I went to the movie one Sunday afternoon and they had then, I don't think we see it so much now,
But they had little short subjects.
Sometimes they were comedies.
Then we had newsreels and things like that before the main feature.
And we saw one called Fort Benning Paratroopers.
And it was very interesting to me.
I told my roommate, that's something I would like to do.
It was really a new type of military service.
And he said, oh, don't do that.
And he discouraged me, but...
Went to the library and read all I could about it, and it became a goal of mine to try to get into the United States Army paratroopers.
And you did, as a matter of fact.
You found that the quickest way to get to the action, you indeed actually had to quit school.
And talk about that.
You quit school, and the next day, your sergeant came up to you, and what did he say to you the next day after you quit?
close grip on us in the ROTC, and they made us semi-active.
We were on active ROTC duty until we finished school and so forth.
And I heard that if you failed or you got in trouble or you resigned from school, you would go into the Army immediately.
So I went and resigned, and I was in Cebiza Metz Hall for breakfast the next day.
And a regular Army sergeant, Sergeant Sabo, came up to me and said, what have you done?
And I said, why do you mean?
He said, you have to report the Fort Sam Houston Induction Center in 24 hours.
And I was soon in the army.
You were soon there.
And you actually volunteered for a paratroop school in Fort Benning because that's what you wanted to do.
So you volunteered and you went to the training and that training was tough.
As a matter of fact, you compared it to coach Bear Bryant's Junction boys type of training.
It was very severe.
It was cruel.
It was Bear Bryant's Junction type treatment of us.
And I
The reason for it, I know, was the paratroopers, people could volunteer for the paratroops from any branch of the service if they had had basic training or more experience.
And they did because there was an incentive in more pay.
It was a new type of uniform.
Paratroopers wore boots before anybody else in the Army wore boots and got silver wings.
And so there was a great incentive.
And then they decided that they had to see how serious these volunteers were.
And they would allow anyone that didn't like that severe type of training to request for transfer.
And
be moved out without any embarrassment or anything, and many people
Yeah, you talked about the incentive.
I think the paratroopers got $50 a month, whereas the normal private got $21 a month.
So there was a financial incentive to stick with it.
It was, and that was a lot of money then in those years.
Eventually you were sent to England and you joined up with the 82nd Airborne, a very famous organization for its service in the war.
It had been a very active unit before you got there, right?
Yes, sir.
It had been through Africa and
They trained in North Africa and jumped on July the 9th, 1943 into Sicily and were very, very instrumental in helping defeat the Germans and Italians on the island of Sicily.
I want to fast forward a little bit.
February of 1944 is actually when you went overseas, you told me.
And you were sent to Ireland, Scotland, and then to sort of the midlands of England where you trained for the invasion.
Talk a little bit about that.
Well, the middle part of England is where the troop carrier airplanes were, the cargo ships that were also used to jump paratroopers, to haul personnel and everything from gasoline to ammunition.
They were called in the Army, the term is C-47s.
The British call them the Dakotas, and they were DC-3s or 4s.
Maybe both.
But we trained there very hard.
And we had to go down into Wales to actually use our guns and have live ammunition for practice.
But they took us down there and brought us back.
And we made a great deal of physical exercise and training to be in good shape physically.
Indeed.
Let's take it to, I guess, June the 5th, 1944.
This had been the day before the invasion, and it was actually 10 o'clock that night that your plane took off, and your unit jumped behind the German lines at Utah Beach at about midnight, right?
This would have been just a few hours before the beach invasion.
Is that right?
What do you remember about that, about that trip, about that?
two hours of flying before you actually jumped.
What were the thoughts of you and your fellow paratroopers?
We had seen pictures of the defense, and we had seen that he made some sand tables of our objectives, and the defense that had set up looked pretty discouraging, and the veterans in the outfit were
very aware that this was probably the most dangerous situation they had ever been into, and they had been in many.
So we were apprehensive.
Our officers came, and our chaplain, and built up our spirits, and I think we were in high spirits when we left.
Of course, D-Day had been delayed, and we had been at these airports for quite a while, and everybody was nervous, and...
kind of worn out from worry.
But nevertheless, England was under double daylight saving time then.
So even though it was late clockwise, it was still twilight.
And then we flew south and when we approached the coast of France, the western coast of the Normandy Peninsula, they had to stand up and hook up in case the plane was hit.
We'd try to get people out.
We were, I think everybody had a lot of adrenaline in them.
We could see the coast and we could see from earlier flights, the ground fire going up and it just looked like a solid sheet of tracers and anti-aircraft fire.
And when we were looking out the little windows and wondered how we would get through that.
And when we got into it, we could hear bullets hitting the plane.
And one guy, it wasn't in my plane, but the one guy, they said in one of the planes afterwards said, they don't pay us enough for this.
It was just a joke that got passed around later.
A fog bank closed in, and planes had to disperse to keep from hitting each other.
And paratroopers were scattered quite a bit, we found out later.
When we get the time to jump, the pilot was homing in on radio devices that were planted two or three hours earlier by what we called our group that went in early and set up these devices called pathfinders.
They're totally organized and trained to do that.
And then when they reach their designated place, they give us a signal in the back by the door, a red light to get ready and move up close to the door and then a green light to go out.
And then we go out.
Because I think of the amount of ground fire and the fact of fog and everything, our particular
plane was too low.
We didn't have much time in the air, which is almost good, too, but most of us hit the ground real hard, including me.
We found out later some of our paratroopers were dropped in the flooded areas of the lowlands.
The Germans had broken dams and flooded areas, and we had
Quite a few people lost, and of course at night we had quite a job to locate each other and to find each other and to try to find out where we were and where our objectives were.
Right, your objective was to take the town of St.
Mary Glees.
That was your objective.
Our division, the 82nd Airborne Division, was to take the town.
It was a crossroad of highways
and a railroad leading up to the beaches, and the German tanks and infantry was in reserve, and we were to make every effort to prevent them from getting there or delay their getting there to counterattack the beach assault.
A lot of those who actually landed in the town were lost because of the armament there in the town, but you believe that you landed about two miles south of the town and then moved into the town, right?
I know you told me about your commander who had kept an American flag from his own experience in Naples, Italy, and he kept that flag, and he made a pledge about that flag.
Talk about that.
Well, we left.
Colonel Walter Crouch had promised that he would raise the flag over the city hall in St.
Mary Glees before daylight on D-Day,
And this was the same flag that he had raised over the city hall in Naples.
Our division had captured Naples in the Italian campaign.
And he did that.
He actually did it.
He had gathered together a force after he landed.
He landed near St.
Mary Gliese and had about 180 soldiers.
Paratroopers, incidentally, a few were from the 101st Airborne that had been lost in the fog.
And attacked the town and killed the men in the German garrison, or they escaped.
And then we were to hold the town until we were relieved by the forces from the beaches.
I want to pause here because I want to show a couple of pictures that you allowed us to show here on the show.
These are a couple of pictures of you.
And there, you can see that picture there.
That is the young Lewis Hudson as a cadet at Texas A&M.
What year do you think that was taken?
That was when I was a sophomore.
When you were a sophomore.
So that would have been in 1941 at around the time of D-Day.
And here you are later.
This would have been later when you were actually enlisted, right?
I was in England.
Right.
And that was, I think, maybe in May before D-Day in June.
You have your wings all ready that you earned as a paratrooper and a good-looking soldier.
Now, this is you and your half-brother.
Talk about this picture.
This picture was taken in Baltimore, Maryland in December.
early December of 1943.
He was on the battleship Nevada and had been brought into Boston and had discovered from my letters that I was probably at Fort Meade, Maryland.
And he got permission to come down there and found me and got permission from me to spend the weekend with him.
And we had that picture taken in Baltimore, and it was sent to our mother.
He sent one and I sent one.
And we wrote her a letter.
And we spent that weekend not sightseeing or not doing anything except talking about home and our family and all our relatives.
And he had been gone quite a while and had been in the Lucian campaign.
Yes, sir.
with the Battleship Nevada and come back through for convoy duty.
Right, great memories, great memories.
Let's go back to Normandy.
Eventually you've accomplished your objective and you head back to the beach.
You march back to Utah Beach.
And I know that on that march back at the beach, you saw many of the ugly remnants of the invasion on D-Day.
What was so impressive was the fact that
We lost a lot of our tanks.
They had been destroyed by the German resistance, and they were pushed over to the side of the road, and we passed these.
And then a huge amount of soldiers' gear, their bags and their equipment and their weapons, if they had been wounded or killed, were stacked in large piles.
on our way back.
And this was after we had been in combat over 30 days, something like 33 or 35 days.
And we were taken back to England and we loaded on LSTs and went back over to England from Normandy.
And one of the first things you did when you got back to England was take a bath because you've been in the same uniform for over a month.
Our uniforms before Normandy had been treated with a material to prevent gas from penetrating.
And they were very hot.
And we were in June and July.
And it was, so we didn't really have much chance to bathe.
We were under fire most of the time.
And...
So we noticed the sailors kept quite a distance from us
After we got on the LSDs.
You had the place to yourself, pretty much.
Later on, you were supposed to do another jump into Belgium, but that was called off, you told me, because of the intense pressure that the Germans were putting on at this time.
But there was a story that you told, and this talks to the intensity of the war, a story you told me about a Polish paratrooper who made a very unfortunate decision.
Tell me that story again.
Yes.
We were on the plane, the motors were running, and they called a mission off.
We were to go in and hold bridges in Belgium.
And when we got off the plane to be trucked back to our camp, I noticed a huge crowd in the plane next to us.
And a soldier came over from that, and we asked what happened.
And he said, well, this was a Polish group that had...
was to be in part of the mission in Belgium.
And as they were loading on the plane, one of the soldiers refused to get on.
And his commanding officer came and ordered him on the plane, and he refused again, and his officer shot him and killed him.
And it was so ironical and so sad
that all of us felt like, had he obeyed orders and got on the plane, because the mission was called off, it was such a waste of life that he had made that choice.
Indeed, and that could be part of the war.
Instead of jumping into Belgium, you jumped into Holland in an operation that was called Market Garden.
Talk about that operation.
That was in September, and it was a daylight jump, and we...
obviously had air supremacy.
And the airborne forces in the planes and gliders went in greatly protected through a tunnel of British and American aircraft.
And they were pretty well neutralizing anything that was on the ground shooting at us.
The jumps were in daylight and they were in open fields.
and we were able to locate our bundles and equipment, guns and ammunition.
We were able to locate where our mission was and we were able to organize properly and it was very good.
However, Holland became a real hornet's nest because the German forces were very strong and they attempted to get rid of us
and we were under constant attack the whole time in the island.
However, the American 101st Airborne and 82nd Airborne were able to capture and hold the bridges that were assigned to us.
The British Red Devil paratrooper division jumped at Arnheim and had a great deal more difficulty, and they were the farthest away from the land forces,
were greatly, they had great casualties, in fact, almost annihilated.
And later, we were all withdrawn down into North France.
And we read later that that operation was not considered very successful.
However, we knew we had done what we were supposed to.
And so had the other American division.
Eventually you were back to France in December the 16th, 1944, German offensive at the Ardennes Forest, which became the Battle of the Bulge.
It was very cold.
The weather was horrible.
Talk about what you remember about the bulge.
Well, we were in North France, near the Reims area of France.
And both airborne divisions were there.
And almost everybody that
night that we were notified we were either watching a movie we had our own movies the 8mm type movies and we or we're playing cards or writing letters or something and then we heard everywhere they were announcing for officers to report to their headquarters and then they call non-commissioned officers and then they tell everybody go to your barracks go to your
where you sleep.
Our particular outfit was in a French artillery fort that the Germans had occupied, and we were occupying it.
And then we were told that we were going, that the Germans had lost a great attack in the Ardennes area.
We didn't know where it was, but they told us it was in Belgium.
And they loaded us up into trucks, and we were trucked at night.
got into that area, both the 101st and 82nd Airborne Divisions.
And they unloaded us, gave us ammunition, told us the direction we were to go in.
And it was a little frightening because there were so many people retreating away from that advance.
And then our first units ran into Germans who were in American uniforms and American vehicles.
And our first units had a hard time, lost quite a few men until it was discovered that they were, by the way, all of those that got caught were shot or impersonating Americans.
Right.
We've only got about three minutes left, but I want you to talk about a gentleman that you talk very highly of, a general who is not as known as other generals of World War II, General James Gavin.
was your commanding general, and it's a person that I know that you think very highly of.
Yes, he is a great man, in my opinion, and I think most of the men in the 82nd Airborne Division.
He was our assistant division commander in Normandy.
He was a regimental commander in Sicily and Italy.
He later became the division commander.
He was a fighting general.
In the air assault, he was in the first plane.
After the Pathfinders, he was the first man out.
He carried an M1 rifle.
He was active in combat.
He never depended upon messengers or any other type of communications to find out how the battle was going.
He went to the battle.
Anytime you were in a firefight, you might turn around and see General Gavin there.
He knew how to move
his regiments and battalions to the hottest spots.
He was a soldier's man.
We admired him and loved him greatly.
We would follow him anywhere.
As a matter of fact, when you were preparing for a possible ground invasion of Japan, which fortunately never happened, he told you that if need be, he'd be the first one to jump out over Tokyo and wanted to know who would follow, right?
He had a division meeting and stood on the Jeep with a loudspeaker and said he wanted, he was going to volunteer the division to fight in the Pacific and that he wanted to know how many would join him and jump on Tokyo with him
Take one step forward, and every man there took one step forward.
Absolutely.
Lewis Hudson, you and your wife, Jo, have three daughters and two grandchildren.
You're proud of all of them.
And I know that upon your, you were through with your service, you went back to A&M, you graduated from A&M, and you became a longtime educator in Somerville, I believe, and other places.
And I wish we could go on and talk more, but we are out of time.
And thank you very much for your service.
Thank you, Tom.
We have uncommon heroes among us in the Brazos Valley.
Lewis Hudson is one of them.
He saw the horror of war.
It stays in his mind, even in his dreams sometimes, those stories he won't discuss, the stories he can't discuss.
What he does tell us reveals a man of honor, a man of pride, a man with the love of his country and his God.
We salute his service.
Thank you to our underwriter, First National Bank.
I'm Tom Turbyville.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.